# API Backlog meeting

#### *7th of July 2022*

## Attendees

* Noel Wirzius, DT
* **Jan Friman, Ericsson**
* **Toshi Wakayama, KDDI**
* **Yusuke Nakano, KDDI**
* Herbet Damker, DT
* Andrew Wajs, Scenera (excused)
* Marcin Jarzab, DT
* **Jose Ordonez-Lucena, Telefonica**
* **Ruben Barrado Gonzalez, Telefonica**
* Kevin Smith, Vodafone
* **Eric Murray, Vodafone**
* **Ivan Nieto, Vodafone**
* **Saad Sheikh, Dell**
* Mariusz Donzanski, DT
**Shilpa Padgaonkar, DT**


## Agenda

1. Discussion
    * Current Issues
    * New issues
2. Action Points
3. AoB

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Who | Description |
| ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| **CURRENT ISSUES** |  | **Total: 9 [ Open: 7 (0 new), Closed: 2 ]** |
| Issue #12<br>*-Change for API backlog* | Ericsson | \* TEF: some comments were proposed in the thread. Request for updates taking into account OPAG's API backlog -> [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf) <br>\* Slide 2.<br><ul><li>VF: agree with Ericsson proposal on the approach, focus more on use case driven capabilities rather than the actual technology solution (network slicing).</li><li class="">TEF: also agree with VF and Ericsson. TEF suggests the need to map the four bullets to the OPAG defined topics in the backlog, in order to manage expectations in terms of priorities (unrealistic to have them all ready in the same timeline). TEF also asks for clarification on the relationship of the first bullet (service ordering with SLA requirements) with the QoD API already posted in CAMARA.&nbsp;<ul><li class="">**AP 20220526-01 (Ericsson):&nbsp;on slides 2 and 5** **from**&nbsp;&nbsp;[https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf), **to map bullets to the OPAG backlog topics, to align CAMARA-OPAG work.**</li><li class="">**AP 20220526-02 (Eficsson):**&nbsp;</li></ul></li></ul>\* Slide 4. <br><ul><li>VF: struggled to find the actual use case behind geofencing.</li><li>Ericsson has explained a possible use case.&nbsp;</li><li>All: We are not sure who originally proposed this API family.</li></ul>\* Slide 5.<br><ul><li>TEF: It'd be good to compare to this API famility to OPAG backlog, and identify matching/mis-matching.</li><li class="">Ericsson agrees.<ul><li class="">**AP20220526-01**</li></ul></li></ul>\* Slide 6.<br><ul><li class="">TEF: before removing traffic influence, it'd be interesting to understand what traffic influence API means for OPAG. In the OPAG backlog, traffic influence (priority #5), which is separate from Application onboarding and instance management (priority #1) and QoS management (priority #3).<ul><li class="">**AP 20220526-03**</li></ul></li><li></li></ul>**Update 9th June:** No progress on this issue since meeting on 25th May.<br><br>**Update 23th June**: n/a<br><br>**Update 7th July**:<br><ul><li>a lot of things have happened since the first API backlog was proposed (October last year), including new priorities from different parnters, and one backlog proposal from GSMA OPG. Jose has made a recap of all the situation, and agreed to suggest a way forward with clear instructions.</li><li>**AP 20220707-01 (TEF):**&nbsp;G**enerate a branch directory compliant with CAMARA 'ways of working'. Upload a live '.md' file for the API backlog, and inform WG participants of way forward.**  </li></ul> |
| Issue #29 - API to request the status of the network | Scenera | \* Scenera: From previous PoCs, it is possible for the network to provide an indication of its congestion and performance.<br>\* TEF: what is the relation to IETF's L4S framework? <br><br>**Update 9th June**: Scenera presented the uploaded proposal for a "Network Status API". Use case is clear - providing a indication of network connectivity status to a management system for cellular-connected video cameras to allow video quality optimisation. Devices would be identified by GPSI. Main discussion was on the nature of the network status indicator. The indicator would need to give an indication of:<br><ul><li>Expected device throughput</li><li>Expected device latency</li><li>Cell congestion</li></ul>Indicators could be absolute (e.g. Mb/s, ms) or relative (e.g. good, average, poor) as appropriate<span class="Apple-converted-space">&nbsp;</span><br>Values should take into account any priority that the device would get for its tarrif<span class="Apple-converted-space">&nbsp;</span><br>**Proposals for network status indicators should be discussed within the issue itself**<span class="Apple-converted-space">&nbsp;</span><br><br>**Update 23th June**: new comment in the thread from VF, regarding info on'cell congestion' . VF clarifies that providing this info is a supported use case of the NEF as long as RCAF (RAN Congestion Awareness Function) is available in the network. The problem is that RCAF is unlikely in production networks at this stage, so workaround until RCAF becomes generally available is to use propietary backend implementations. <br><br>**Update 7th July**:<br><ul><li>new comments in the thread from VF, regarding guidance on'achievable throughput and latency guidance'.&nbsp; VF suggests linking this info to the QoS levels offered by the QoD API. VF also clarifies that throughput or latency guidance from the network status API can only be regarded as indicative and not be a guarantee that the device would get these QoS levels if requested via the QoD API. But the guidance could be used by a developer to help decide for which devices it'd be worth requesting a higher QoS level.</li><li>TEF agrees with VF comments, and encourage the rest of participants to also post their views/feedback. It is important to have them before taking a go/not-go decision for the API standardization.&nbsp;</li></ul> |
| Issue #47<br>\- LS Reply to OPAG on backlog proposal | Ericsson, TEF | To prepare a LS reply to OPAG, to provide them with feedback on their CAMARA backlog proposal. This LS will be prepared once APs 20220526-01, 20220526-02 and 20220526-03 are closed.<br><br>**Update 9th June:** Issue not yet created. Waiting to close action points<br>**Update 23th June**: Issue created. Waiting for closing OPAG-CAMARA ToR. <br>**Update 7th July**: Issue created. Waiting for closing OPAG-CAMARA ToR. |
| Issue #43<br>Roaming Status API Proposal | Vodafone | Vodafone presented a [proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20Proposals/Roaming%20Status.md) for a Roaming Status API. Main discussion was on privacy and authorisation :<br><ul><li>How to ensure that the subscriber whose roaming status is being reported has consented to that?</li><li>How to ensure that the API consumer has the right to access that information?</li></ul>**Proposal:** These issues will be common to many APIs, so should be considered by the Commonalities WG. Other questions and comments on the specific API proposal can be added to issue #43<br><br>**Update 23th June**: awaiting for comments.<br><br>**Update 7th July**:<br><ul><li>TEF asked for a couple of use cases that allow illustrating which 3rd parties could become API consumer/callers. In response to TEF request, VF posted two scenarios -&gt; financial services compliance and fraud detection.</li><li class="">DTAG comments that OPAG Block A is discussing roaming in E/WBI -- it is worth aligning views. TEF comments that CAMARA focuses on NBI (3rd party-operator interface), which is different from E/WBI (operator-operator interface), so the scope of roaming between CAMARA and OPAG Black might be different. Double checking is need to avoid duplicities. Related action points:&nbsp;<ul><li class="">**AP 20220707-02 (DTAG): to check OPAG Block A work in roaming, and identify differences/touchpoints between planned work in CAMARA.**&nbsp;</li></ul></li><li class="">TEF and DT have been appointed as main reviewers for this issue, though the rest of partners are more than welcome.<ul><li class="">**AP 20220707-03 (TEF): to assign Marcin as reviewer for issue #43.**</li><li class="">**AP 20220707-04 (DTAG, TEF): to analyze the 2 use cases proposed by VF for issue #43 socializing them internally, and post feedback/comments in the issue thread.**&nbsp;</li></ul></li><li class="">WG participants have agreed on the journey from 'API backlog' to a dedicated 'API WG'.&nbsp;<ul><li class="">**AP 20220707-05 (TEF): to share a figure explaining the journey from&nbsp;'API backlog' to a dedicated 'API WG', to manage expectations and understand procedures.**&nbsp;</li></ul></li><li class="">Ericsson mentions that in the original API backlog there is the 'device status API', with provides info on many attributes. Ericsson clarifies that one of these attributes is roaming, and wonders why then roaming is modelled as a separate API, instead of being integrated into one single 'device status API'. VF's view is that different use cases can be implemented in separate paths/APIs, that's why they see Roaming API separate. VF also comments that device status was an API family, formed of one or more APIs. This is another argument why Roaming Status (issue #43) and device identifier (issue #44) are two different API proposals.</li></ul> |
| Issue #44<br>Device Identifier API Proposal | Vodafone | Vodafone presented a [proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20Proposals/Device%20Identifier.md) for a Device Identifier API based on the IMEI, which is known to the network. Main discussion was on:<br><ul><li>The value in providing an option to identify the device manufacturer only, rather than IMEI or IMEI TAC</li><li>The overall value of this API to a business case</li></ul>**Proposal:** Discuss further within issue #44<br><br>**Update 23th June**: awaiting for comments. <br><br>**Update 7th July**:<br><ul><li>TEF asked for a couple of use cases that allow illustrating which 3rd parties could become API consumers/callers. In response to TEF request, VF posted two scenarios:&nbsp;insurance and content providers.</li></ul>Ericsson have been appointed as main reviewers for this issue, though the rest of partners are more than welcome. <br><ul><li>**AP 20220707-06 (TEF): to assign Miguel from Ericsson as reviewer for issue #44.**</li><li>**AP 20220707-07 (ERICSSON, TEF): to analyze the 2 use cases proposed by VF for issue #44, socializing themn internally, and post feedback/comments in the issue thread.**&nbsp;</li></ul> |
| Issue #45<br>Anonymised Subscriber Identifier API Proposal | Vodafone | Vodafone presented a [proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20Proposals/Anonymised%20Subscriber%20Identifier.md) for an Anonymised Subcriber Identifier API, which would provide an anonymised identifier for the connectivity subscriber (i.e. SIM owner) based on the public IP address currently alloacted to the UE using that SIM. Main discussion was on :<br><ul><li>Clarification that this was an identity use case and not authentication as the end user may not be the subscriber themselves (e.g. mobile routers)</li><li>Privacy / authorisation issues as discussed above</li></ul>**Proposal:** WG participants to discuss proposal internally and add any comments or question to issue #45.<br><br>**Update 23th June**: awaiting for comments<br><br>**Update 7th July:** TEF asked for the usability of this API also for fixed access. VF first thought is using this API for mobile access, but don't exclude its usage for fixed access. Important clarification made in NOTE 2. |
| Issue #48<br>WiFi control API | TEF | TEF presented a [proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20Proposals/Device%20Map%20And%20Prioritization%20CAMARA%20API%20Proposal.pptx) for an "Device Map and Prioritization API", which would allow prioritizing traffic in a device in an home environment.<br>VF: the scope of the prioritization, is it only on Wi-Fi? TEF nods.<br>The device concept in the API includes the end-user device connected to the router.<br>VF asked whether TEF have considered TMF API for this capability. TEF explained that they decided to go for because they are not user-friendly, and they are not handled user content properly. <br><br>**Proposal**: WG participants to discuss proposal internally and add any comments or question to issue #48.<br><br>**Update 7th July:** <br><ul><li class="">TEF coverted PPT into md filel, but was asked to ellaborate a bit more<ul><li class="">**AP 20220707-08 (TEF): to provide a new version of API description for issue #48**</li></ul></li></ul> |
| **NEW ISSUES** |  |  |
|  |  |  |

## Action Points

| AP Identifier | AP Owner | Status | Description |
| ------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
| 20220526-01 | Ericsson | Open | on slides 2 and 5 from  [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf), to map bullets to the OPAG backlog topics, to align CAMARA-OPAG work. |
| 20220526-02 | Ericsson | Open | on slide 2 from [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf) from to clarify on the relationship of the first bullet (service ordering with SLA requirements) with the QoD API already posted in CAMARA. |
| 20220526-03 | TEF | Open | to ask OPAG for clarification on the differences between traffic influence and QoS management, and the relationship between traffic influence and the Telco edge APIs. We need to wait until CAMARA-OPAG ToR is signed. |
| ~~20220609-01~~ | ~~TEF~~ | ~~Closed~~ | ~~Close issues #2 & #20~~ |
| 20220707-01 | TEF | Open | Generate a branch directory compliant with CAMARA 'ways of working'.<br>Upload a live '.md' file for the API backlog, and inform WG participants of way forward. |
| 20220707-02 | DTAG | Open | to check OPAG Block A work in roaming, and identify differences/touchpoints between planned work in CAMARA. |
| 20220707-03 | TEF | Open | to assign Marcin as reviewer for issue #43. |
| 20220707-04 | DTAG, TEF | Open | to analyze the 2 use cases proposed by VF for issue #43 socializing them internally, and post feedback/comments in the issue thread.  |
| 20220707-05 | TEF | Open | to share a figure explaining the journey from 'API backlog' to a dedicated 'API WG', to manage expectations and understand procedures.  |
| 20220707-06 | TEF | Open | to assign Miguel as reviewer for issue #44. |
| 20220707-07 | Ericsson, TEF | Open | to analyze the 2 use cases proposed by VF for issue #44, socializing themn internally, and post feedback/comments in the issue thread.  |
| 20220707-08 | TEF | Open | to provide a new version of API description for issue #48 |

## AoB

1. Next call schedule: 28th July 2022
2. Next call agenda:
    * Go through 20220707-05.
