# API Backlog meeting

#### *1st of September 2022*

## Attendees

* **Noel Wirzius, DT**
* Jan Friman, Ericsson
* **Toshi Wakayama, KDDI**
* Yusuke, KDDI
* Herbet Damker, DT
* **Andrew Wajs, Scenera**
* **Jose Ordonez-Lucena, Telefonica**
* **Ruben Barrado Gonzalez, Telefonica**
* Diego González, Telefonica.
* Eder A Marins, Telefonica.
* Jose Aranda, Telefonica
* Kevin Smith, Vodafone
* **Eric Murray, Vodafone**
* **Ivan Nieto, Vodafone**
* Saad Sheikh, Dell
* Shilpa Padgaonkar, DT
* Jason Hunt, IBM

## Agenda

1. Discussion
2. Action Points
3. AoB

## Discussion


| Agenda Item | Who | Description |
| ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| **CURRENT ISSUES** |  | **Total: 9 [ Open: 6 (0 new), Closed: 3 ]** |
| Issue #12<br>*-Change for API backlog* | Ericsson | **Update 1st sept**: A live table will be generated to record all proposals, following the template captured in the guidelines to be approval on the next SteerCo call (8th Sept). Action will be taken upon approving these guidelines.  |
| Issue #29 - API to request the status of the network | Scenera | **Update 1st Sept**: Scenera is asked to provide further details on API input/output params, in line with the approach followed by the rest of API proposal. Recommendation is to wait for guidelines to be approved next week, and follow the template captured in these guidelines to fill out the requested details.|
| Issue #47<br>\- LS Reply to OPAG on backlog proposal | Ericsson, TEF | **Update 1st Sept**: This is on hold until issue #12 is closed, and OPAG ToR is approved.|
| Issue #44<br>Device Identifier API Proposal | Vodafone | **Update 1st Sept**: VF agrees it is also possible to add UE IPv4v6 address as an additional option to identify UE. The approach is similar to the new version available for the QoD API.|
| Issue #45<br>Anonymised Subscriber Identifier API Proposal | Vodafone | **Update 1st Sept**:<br>TEF: the proposal states that "the API will not work if the route between the network and the web service includes proxies, VPNs or other network elements that NAT the source IP address". However, this is not an uncommon scenario in commercial deployments, right?<br> VF: if CG-NAT, there is not issue becaause the mappings are known in advance. The problem is where there is a non-operator managed element in the path that proxies/NATes the IP address.|
| Issue #48<br>WiFi control API | TEF | **Update 1st Sept**: <br> TEF: have gone through VF comments and provide a comparative analysis against TR-369. An one-to-one session was held with Mayur (VF) to clarify these comments. <br>VF: we will sync internally with Mayur, and come back to you later on.  |
| **NEW ISSUES** |  |  |
|  |  |  |

  
## Action Points

| AP Identifier | AP Owner | Status | Description |
| ------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
| 20220526-01 | Ericsson | Open | on slides 2 and 5 from  [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf), to map bullets to the OPAG backlog topics, to align CAMARA-OPAG work. |
| 20220526-02 | Ericsson | Open | on slide 2 from [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf) from to clarify on the relationship of the first bullet (service ordering with SLA requirements) with the QoD API already posted in CAMARA. |
| 20220526-03 | TEF | Open | to ask OPAG for clarification on the differences between traffic influence and QoS management, and the relationship between traffic influence and the Telco edge APIs. We need to wait until CAMARA-OPAG ToR is signed. |
| 20220707-01 | TEF | Open | Generate a branch directory compliant with CAMARA 'ways of working'.<br>Upload a live '.md' file for the API backlog, and inform WG participants of way forward. |
| 20220707-02 | DTAG | Open | to check OPAG Block A work in roaming, and identify differences/touchpoints between planned work in CAMARA. |
| 20220707-04 | DTAG, TEF | Open | to analyze the 2 use cases proposed by VF for issue #43 socializing them internally, and post feedback/comments in the issue thread.  |
| ~~20220818-01~~ | ~~TEF~~ | ~~Closed~~ |~~to let Markus know that there is an agreement on the new process for API onboarding and managemnet in CAMARA. Ask a slot in next SteerCo to present golden nuggets.~~ |
| ~~20220818-02~~ | ~~TEF~~ | ~~Closed~~ |~~to preparae a short version of the PPT ](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Contributions/20220818-CAMARA-API-onboarding-and-handling-process%20.pptx), for presentation in next SteerCo.~~ |
| 20220818-03 | TEF | Open | Once the API onboarding and management procedures are approved by SteerCo, generate a .md file to document the overall process, including versioning management, and submit it to the Commonalities WG. |


## AoB

1. Next call schedule: 15th September 2022
2. Next call agenda:
    * Going through pending issues and action points. 
