# API Backlog meeting

#### *4th of August 2022*

## Attendees

* **Noel Wirzius, DT**
* **Jan Friman, Ericsson**
* **Toshi Wakayama, KDDI**
* Herbet Damker, DT
* Andrew Wajs, Scenera (excused)
* Marcin Jarzab, DT
* Jose Ordonez-Lucena, Telefonica
* **Ruben Barrado Gonzalez, Telefonica**
* Kevin Smith, Vodafone
* Eric Murray, Vodafone
* Ivan Nieto, Vodafone
* **Saad Sheikh, Dell**
* Mariusz Donzanski, DT
* **Shilpa Padgaonkar, DT**

## Agenda
1. Discussion 
   - API onboarding and handling (session 2)
2. Action Points
3. AoB

## Discussion
TEF has addressed AP 20220728-01, uploading a new PPT with the feedback received last week. The PPT is uploaded [here](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Contributions/20220801-CAMARA-API-onboarding-and-handling-process%20.pptx).

The session resumes the discussion started on the 28th July conf. call, with focus on remaining slides. 
- No major concerns from participants.
- In an email, IBM commented on the need to update info to be captured in individual Sub-Projects. The IBM proposal is quite appropriate and timely, and will be included in the final PPT version. 
  - AP 20220804-01 (TEF): to include IBM proposal on Sub-project info into these guidelines, and agree on it next conf. call. 


| Agenda Item | Who | Description |
| ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| **CURRENT ISSUES** |  | **Total: 9 [ Open: 7 (0 new), Closed: 2 ]** |
| Issue #12<br>*-Change for API backlog* | Ericsson | **Update 4th August**: N/A  |
| Issue #29 - API to request the status of the network | Scenera | **Update 4th August**: N/A|
| Issue #47<br>\- LS Reply to OPAG on backlog proposal | Ericsson, TEF | **Update 4th August**: N/A|
| Issue #43<br>Roaming Status API Proposal | Vodafone | **Update 4th August**: it was decided to allocate the API proposal into a new Sub-Project, called [Device Status](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceStatus). The issue #43 is closed, so is 20220707-03.|
| Issue #44<br>Device Identifier API Proposal | Vodafone | **Update 4th August**: N/A |
| Issue #45<br>Anonymised Subscriber Identifier API Proposal | Vodafone | **Update 4th August**: N/A|
| Issue #48<br>WiFi control API | TEF | **Update 4th August**: N/A|
| **NEW ISSUES** |  |  |
|  |  |  |

## Action Points

| AP Identifier | AP Owner | Status | Description |
| ------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
| 20220526-01 | Ericsson | Open | on slides 2 and 5 from  [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf), to map bullets to the OPAG backlog topics, to align CAMARA-OPAG work. |
| 20220526-02 | Ericsson | Open | on slide 2 from [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf) from to clarify on the relationship of the first bullet (service ordering with SLA requirements) with the QoD API already posted in CAMARA. |
| 20220526-03 | TEF | Open | to ask OPAG for clarification on the differences between traffic influence and QoS management, and the relationship between traffic influence and the Telco edge APIs. We need to wait until CAMARA-OPAG ToR is signed. |
| 20220707-01 | TEF | Open | Generate a branch directory compliant with CAMARA 'ways of working'.<br>Upload a live '.md' file for the API backlog, and inform WG participants of way forward. |
| 20220707-02 | DTAG | Open | to check OPAG Block A work in roaming, and identify differences/touchpoints between planned work in CAMARA. |
| ~~20220707-03~~ | ~~TEF~~ | ~~Closed~~ | ~~to assign Marcin as reviewer for issue #43~~ |
| 20220707-04 | DTAG, TEF | Open | to analyze the 2 use cases proposed by VF for issue #43 socializing them internally, and post feedback/comments in the issue thread.  |
| 20220707-07 | Ericsson, TEF | Open | to analyze the 2 use cases proposed by VF for issue #44, socializing themn internally, and post feedback/comments in the issue thread.  |
| ~~20220728-01~~ | ~~TEF~~ | ~~Closed~~ | ~~Generate a new PPT version with the comments captured, for discussion next week.~~ |
| 20220804-01 | TEF | Open | to include IBM proposal on Sub-project info into these guidelines, and agree on it at next conf. call. |


## AoB

1. Next call schedule: 18th August 2022
2. Next call agenda:
    * Go through the final version of the PPT, agree on it, and define next steps. 
