# API Backlog meeting

#### *15th of September 2022*

## Attendees

* Noel Wirzius, DT
* **Shilpa Padgaonkar, DT**
* Herbet Damker, DT
* Jan Friman, Ericsson
* **Toshi Wakayama, KDDI**
* Yusuke, KDDI
* Herbet Damker, DT
* **Andrew Wajs, Scenera**
* **Jose Ordonez-Lucena, Telefonica**
* **Ruben Barrado Gonzalez, Telefonica**
* **Jesús Peña García-Oliva, Telefonica**
* Diego González, Telefonica.
* **Kevin Smith, Vodafone**
* **Eric Murray, Vodafone**
* Ivan Nieto, Vodafone
* Saad Sheikh, Dell
* Shilpa Padgaonkar, DT
* Jason Hunt, IBM

## Agenda

1. Discussion
   - Issue [#48](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/48) (TEF)
   - Issue [#71](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/71) (TIM)
   - Other issues
2. Action Points
3. AoB

## Discussion


| Agenda Item | Who | Description |
| ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| **CURRENT ISSUES** |  | **Total: 10 [ Open: 7 (1 new), Closed: 3 ]** |
| Issue [#12](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/12)<br>Change for API backlog | Ericsson | **Update 15th sept**: <br>No updates |
| Issue [#29](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/29)<br>API to request the status of the network | Scenera | **Update 15th Sept**: <br>No updates |
| Issue [#47](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/47)<br>LS Reply to OPAG on backlog proposal | Ericsson, TEF | **Update 15th Sept**: <br>No updates  |
| Issue [#44](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/44)<br>Device Identifier API Proposal | Vodafone | **Update 15th Sept**: <br>No updates  |
| Issue [#45](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/45)<br>Anonymised Subscriber Identifier API Proposal | Vodafone | **Update 15th Sept**: <br>No updates |
| Issue [#48](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/48)<br>WiFi control API | TEF | **Update 15th Sept**: <br> TEF: the new API proposal has been submitted with PR [#73](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/73). No comments raised during the meeting. |
| Issue [#71]([#45](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/71))<br>WiFi control API | TIM | **Update 15th Sept**: <br> Fabrizio presented the proposal. As for next steps, TIM preferred option is to manage the API onboarding using option B in the pipeline, posting the API proposal on the [EdgeCloudWG subproject](https://github.com/camaraproject/EdgeCloud). When presented in the subproject, Fabrizio will inform  API backlog accordingly, so the group can register the proposal in the live table.|
| **NEW ISSUES** |  |  |
|  |  |  |

  
## Action Points

| AP Identifier | AP Owner | Status | Description |
| ------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
| 20220526-01 | Ericsson | Open | on slides 2 and 5 from  [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf), to map bullets to the OPAG backlog topics, to align CAMARA-OPAG work. |
| 20220526-02 | Ericsson | Open | on slide 2 from [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf) from to clarify on the relationship of the first bullet (service ordering with SLA requirements) with the QoD API already posted in CAMARA. |
| 20220526-03 | TEF | Open | to ask OPAG for clarification on the differences between traffic influence and QoS management, and the relationship between traffic influence and the Telco edge APIs. We need to wait until CAMARA-OPAG ToR is signed. |
| 20220707-01 | TEF | Open | Generate a branch directory compliant with CAMARA 'ways of working'.<br>Upload a live '.md' file for the API backlog, and inform WG participants of way forward. |
| 20220707-02 | DTAG | Open | to check OPAG Block A work in roaming, and identify differences/touchpoints between planned work in CAMARA. |
| 20220707-04 | DTAG, TEF | Open | to analyze the 2 use cases proposed by VF for issue [#44](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/44) socializing them internally, and post feedback/comments in the issue thread.  |
| 20220818-03 | TEF | Open | Once the API onboarding and management procedures are approved by SteerCo, generate a .md file to document the overall process, including versioning management, and submit it to the Commonalities WG. |


## AoB

1. Next call schedule: 29th September 2022
2. Next call agenda:
    * Going through pending issues and action points. 
