#### *2nd November 2023*


## Attendees

| |
| --- |
|AT&T: Pierre Close|
|Conviva: Vidhi Mehta |
|Erisson: Jan Friman|
|GSMA: Mark Cornall|
|Telefónica: Jose Ordonez-Lucena, Jorge García|
|TMUS: Murat Karabulut|
|Verizon: Mahesh Chapalamadugu|
|Vodafone: Eric Murray|


## Agenda

- New procedures in API backlog meetings
- Backlog table updated
- Discussion
	- Current issues
	- Closed issues
	- New issues
- AoB
- Review of Action Points
- Q&A




## New Procedures in API backlog meetings

A number of improvements are under discussion with leadership team of OGW project (Henry), CAMARA Project (Markus), Product Definition WS (Helene) and TSC (Herbert). For the time being, the agreement vailable for WG adoption are these ones:
1. To close the agenda SEVEN DAYS BEFORE the conf. call. 
	- In case a WG participant wants to include a point in the agenda (e.g., present a new API proposal), this participant shall ensure the corresponding issue is opened in Github by then. 
	- Exceptional situations will be treated separately.
2. To shift API backlog WG conf. calls 1 week, ensuring TSC and API backlog meetings are scheduled in alternate weeks. This action will enable more TSC delegates to join the API backlog WG. The Proposal is to schedule biweekly calls:
	- 2nd Thursday of the month (10-11 CET)
	- 4th Thursday of the month (16-17 CET)

**Comments during the call**:
- Consensus with point 1 -> to be communicated offline.
- No objection with point 2, but will be taken for 7-day mail approval (AP 20231102-01).
	- Reason is that many regular delegates did not attend the meeting.
	- Proposed slots may impact American and Asian delegates, so their feedback is important. 


## Backlog table updated
- PR [#331](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/331) ongoing. This is the first step of all the actions identified in [#100](https://github.com/camaraproject/Governance/issues/100). 

## Discussion

| **Agenda  Item**  |  Owner| Description |
| ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** | | - Minutes of last API backlog WG call available [here](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/MeetingMinutes/MOM-2023-10-19.md) <br> - Minutes of last TSC call available [here](https://github.com/camaraproject/Governance/blob/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes/TSC/TSC-2023-10-19-Meeting-Minutes.md). <br> - Device Swap Sub-Project created. <br> - IMEI Fraud can get started in [DeviceIdentifier](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceIdentifier) Sub-Project. <br> - Five new APIs were submitted into backlog, all of them coming from Open Gateway Drop #3. Three of them included in today's agenda.| 
| **Current issues** |  |  |
| [#271](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/271)  | China Telecom, Huawei| **New API proposal: Site to cloud (S2C) VPN**</br> Updates: <br> - Proposed for drop #3, but unfortunately didn't go shortlisted. </br> - Progress offline among interested parties (API owners, AT&T) with API backlog and TSC mediating. Good discussion and clarification on technical and product scope. <br> - TSC reported offline that they are in position of accepting the proposal, though encourage AT&T and China Telecom aligment within the Sub-Project. <br> - Eric (Vodafone): he reported that TSC has given green light to the API approval, with this decision formally made on 2nd Nov call. The A new sub-project will be created. <br> - Jose (Telefonica): he asked Pierre (AT&T) whether AT&T would join the Sub-Project, taking guidance from TSC. <br> - Pierre (AT&T): need to align internally with the AT&T colleagues who led the Catalyst, and would come back with a response. <br> - Once the sub-project is approved, the supporters need to provide initial maintainers (AP 20231102-02).|
| [#294](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/294) | Verizon| **New API proposal: Network Insights** <br> Updates: <br> - TSC asked specific and understandable API name for Network Insights. Offline discussion with GSMA and Verizon for the new API name for Network Insights. <br> - Verizon: What we have not decided yet is the name for the sub project which will have the specific contribution(yaml) tagged to. i was considering that once the project is kicked off and we have the project call we can finalize the name among the participants interested in this project. If this is holding up the whole process then lets please go ahead with "Connectivity Insights". <br> - API backlog WG will inform TSC that "Connectivity Insights" is proposed as new Sub-Project name (AP 20231019-04 cannot be closed, until TSC ok).
| [#317](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/317) | China Unicom | **New Proposal-Network Slicing API** <br> The API template is available in [PR#333](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/333)<br> Updates: <br> - the API name has been changed from Service Booking to Network Slicing (AP 20231019-05 can be closed). <br> - Jan (Ericsson): he noted that Ericsson supports this API proposal, as it makes sense from technical perspective. Ericsson had comments on the actual API, but before posting them in the thread, he would like to know whether this API is eligible to become a "service API" (and developed in CAMARA) or should be considered as a "Operate API" (and developed in TM Forum). <br> - Eric (Vodafone): he noted that this API should be read as a "Service API" (CAMARA API). He clarified that Vodafone general position for non-OGW related APIs is not to support them. He suggests recommending API owners to follow the default path "OGW Product WS -> CAMARA", in order to get more traction and support from the rest of operators. Finally, he notes that further details on product and technical scopes are needed. <br> - Mark (GSMA): he agreed with most of Eric's comments. Clarified that network slicing APIs are discussed in the context of OPG/OPAG from network enablers perspective. Promotion within Open Gateway Product WS may come in the future, once technical capabilities are available and there is a market demand. <br> - Jose (Telefonica): he agreed with Eric's points, though it also noted that nothing prevents a company from contributing with a non-OGW API. <br> - Eric (Vodafone): he concurred, but also noted that China Unicom is a OGW MoU signatory, and one of the MoU committments is to steer work through OGW programme instead of direct submission to CAMARA. <br> - Jose (Telefonica): suggested keeping discussion off-line, and encouraged all participants to post these comments in the issue/PR thread, so API owners can receive feedback and take action accordingly. |
| **Closed issues** |  |  |
| [#284](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/284) | MTN | **New API proposal: Device Swap**|
| [#285](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/285) | MTN | **New API proposal: IMEI Fraud**|
| [#309](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/309) | DT| **API Proposal Template - new location** <br>|
| [#315](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/315) | TMUS | **Does backlog table need updates for simswap?** |
| **New issues** |  |  |
| [#324](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/324) | Orange | **New API proposal: KYC Age Verification** <br>The API template is available in [PR#323](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/323). Comments: <br> - The API proposal comes from Open Gateway drop #3. <br> - Since Orange didn't attend the call, Jorge (Telefónica) kindly volunteered to present the API proposal on behalf of Open Gateway Product WS. Differences with regards KYC Fill-in and KYC Match were noted. <br> - Eric (Vodafone): he reported that Vodafone supports to include the proposal in the existing KnowYourCustomer sub-project. <br> - Jose (Telefonica): he asked if there are objections from delegates to nominate this API proposal for approval to TSC. There were no objections, so the API will be communicated to TSC (AP 20231102-03). |
| [#328](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/328) | China Unicom | **New API proposal: Region User Count** <br>The API template is available in [PR#327](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/327). Comments: <br> - The API proposal comes from Open Gateway drop #3.<br> - Since China Unicom didn't attend the call, Jorge (Telefonica) kindly volunteered to present the API proposal on behalf of Open Gateway Product WS. <br> - Eric (Vodafone): he asked for differences with [#334](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/334). <br> - Jorge (Telefonica): he clarified that both API proposals are similar with regards to technical and product scope, and thus are eligible to become part of the same Sub-Project (or even same API, e.g., mapping them to different endpoints). The main difference lies on the API output params: user count or density. This difference is motivated by privacy reasons and regulation in different markets. <br> - Jose (Telefonica): he suggest discussing this API together with [#334](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/334) in the next conf. call, so similarities/differences can be minuted for easier TSC decision later on. |
| [#330](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/330) | China Unicom| **New API proposal: Device Visit Location**<br>The API template is available in [PR#329](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/329). <br> - The API proposal comes from Open Gateway drop #3. <br> - No time for discussion in the call, so it is postponed for next meeting. |



## AoB
- 5 open APs: 1 existing + 4 new. See further details in next clause.
- Next conf. call will be held 9th November (10-11 CET)
- Issues for discussion will include, at least, the following APIs: Region User Count (#328), Device Visit Location (#330), Dynamic People Density Information (#334), and Home Location Verification (#336).


## Review of Action Points

| AP Identifier | AP Owner | Status | Description |
| ------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
| 20231102-03 | API backlog WG Chair | Open | Nominate the API proposal for TSC appproval. **Deadline**: 9 Nov 2023. |
| 20231102-02 | China Telecom, Huawei, China Unicom | Open | Nominate maintainers for the new Sub-Project which will be hosting Site-to-Cloud VPN.|
| 20231102-01 | API backlog WG Chair | Open | 7-day mail approval on the new slots for API backlog WG call. |
| 20231019-05 | China Unicom | Closed | ~~Update Service Booking API proposals, modifying API name to Network Slicing.~~|
| 20231019-04 | Verizon | Closed| ~~Nominate maintainers for the new Sub-Project which will be hosting Network Insights API.~~|
| 20231019-03 | GSMA, Verizon | Open | Find  more specific and understandable API name for Network Insights API. |
| 20231019-02 | MTN, KDDI, Huawei | Closed | ~~Ask TSC for further clarity on concerns regarding S2C VPN API, so API owners can move on.~~|
| 20230921-01 |Telefónica| Closed | ~~Nominate maintainers for the new Sub-Project which will be hosting Device Swap API.~~|
| 20231019-01 | WG chair | Closed | ~~Ask TSC for further clarity on concerns regarding S2C VPN API, so API owners can move on.~~|
| 20230921-01 |Telefónica| Closed | ~~Open a PR to address [#309](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/309)~~ |
| 20230907-05 |Ericsson| Not pursued | ~~To add the company names (via PR) in the 'supporters' column in [API backlog table](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/APIBacklog.md) for Click-to-Dial API, if willing to become supporter of this API.~~ |
| 20230907-04 | Verizon | Closed | ~~To fill missing information on technical viability for [Network Insights API proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/295).~~  |
| 20230907-03 | Meta, Ericsson | Not pursued | ~~To add their company names (via PR) in the 'supporters' column in [API backlog table](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/APIBacklog.md) for WebRTC API, if they want to become supporters of this API.~~|


# Q&A

**How does CAMARA API pipeline work?**

The pipeline consists of FOUR stages:
<br> A. Submission of the API proposal.
<br> B. Evaluation of the API proposal.
<br> C. API proposal voting & decision.
<br> D. Sub-Project setup.

The following clauses provides details on individual stages. 

**Stage A: Submission of the API proposal**

<u>Participants</u>: API owner.<br>
<u>Description</u>: The proccess is detailed [here](https://github.com/camaraproject/Governance/blob/main/documentation/API-onboarding.md). To proceed with the submission, the API owner shall follow these steps:
1. Fill in the template available [here](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/API-proposal-template.md) and save it with the following name: "APIproposal\_\<APIname\>\_\<owner\>. md" locally.
2. Create a new issue in the API Backlog Working Group repository, labeled with "API Backlog".
3. Upload the filled-in template to [GitHub repository folder for API proposals](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/APIBacklog/documentation/SupportingDocuments/API%20proposals) via Pull Request. This Pull Request shall be associated to the issue created in the previous step.

**Stage B: Evaluation of the API proposal** 

<u>Participants</u>: API owner, API backlog WG.<br>
<u>Description</u>: The proccess is detailed [here](https://github.com/camaraproject/Governance/blob/main/documentation/API-onboarding.md). Upon submission, the API owner will present the proposal in the next API backlog WG meeting, to socialize it with the rest of partners. In paralell..

1. The WG chair checks that the template is duly filled in. Otherwise, the API owner is requested to provide missing information.
2. After this sanity check, each WG participant declares their support. If a company wants to become supporter of an API, then a delegate of this company needs to add the company's name in the 'supporters' column in the [API backlog table](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/APIBacklog.md). The more support an API proposal gets, the better (it may get more traction).
3. When the API owner considers the API proposal is in good shape to go for approval, it informs the WG chair accordingly.
4. Upon receiving this information, the WG chair merges the Pull Request into the main branch, and sends the API proposal to the Technical Steering Committee (TSC) of CAMARA. This action shall be completed at least one week prior to the TSC meeting where the API proposal will be voted upon.
 
The whole procedure (steps 1-4) should be done within 2 regular meetings of the API Backlog WG. Nonetheless, it is up to the API owner to decide if it wants to shorten or extend this time period.

**Stage C: API proposal & voting decision**

<u>Participants</u>: TSC.<br>
<u>Description</u>: The proccess is detailed [here](https://github.com/camaraproject/Governance/blob/main/documentation/API-onboarding.md). Upon receiving the API proposal and notification from the API backlog WG chair, the TSC studies the proosal and votes it at the next TSC meeting. 

NOTE 1: Possible decisions outcomes:
- Not Accepted: The API proposal is rejected, and thus will not be included in any API Sub-Project. The TSC will need to inform the API backlog WG of this decision, and clarify next steps: either (1) remove this API proposal from backlog, with objecting companies providing justifications why; or (2) ask for changes (e.g., clarifications, corrections, gaps to be addressed) required in order for the API to be re-submitted by the API supporters.
- Accepted: In this case, the TSC shall specify whether the API proposal is to be hosted by a new or existing Sub Project.

NOTE 2: The TSC may also propose changes to an API proposal and take the decision considering these changes. The TSC documents the decision in the [CAMARA API overview list](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/APIBacklog.md) (fills in columns TSC date and TSC decision / Sub Project; in case of a No-Go "Rejected" is documented there).

**Stage D: Sub-Project setup**

<u>Participants</u>: API backlog WG, TSC, CAMARA admin team<br>
<u>Description</u>: If an API proposal is accepted and there is a neeed to open a new Sub-Project, the following steps are needed:
1. Supporting companies propose their initial maintainers to be added for the Sub-Project. The API backlog WG chair centralizes this information, and sends it to the TSC.
2. The TSC will use this input to oficially nominate the initial maintainers by next TSC meeting.
3. The CAMARA admin team creates the Sub-Project repository. 

NOTE: After the initial maintainers are nominated, the criteria for further maintainers would be three months of active contribution to the sub project. Code owners are to be decided by the maintainers within the subproject.


