# API Backlog meeting

#### *28th of July 2022*

## Attendees

* **Noel Wirzius, DT**
* **Jan Friman, Ericsson**
* **Toshi Wakayama, KDDI**
* Herbet Damker, DT
* Andrew Wajs, Scenera (excused)
* Marcin Jarzab, DT
* Jose Ordonez-Lucena, Telefonica
* **Ruben Barrado Gonzalez, Telefonica**
* Kevin Smith, Vodafone
* **Eric Murray, Vodafone**
* **Ivan Nieto, Vodafone**
* **Saad Sheikh, Dell**
* Mariusz Donzanski, DT
* **Shilpa Padgaonkar, DT**

## Agenda

1. Discussion 
   - API onboarding and handling (session 1)
2. Action Points
3. AoB

## Discussion
The whole session has been focused on 20220707-05. TEF, with the valuable support and guidance from DT, has prepared a proposal scoping AP 20220707-05. This is of key importance for CAMARA and external process, specially in what relates to the pipeline from API proposal (how to make it available in the backlog?) to API development (allocating the API into a new or existing Sub-Project?)

The objective is to **discuss and agree on an open and transparent process for API onboarding and handling in CAMARA project**. 
- The discussions are conducted in the _API backlog WG_, since the critical points of this process are focused on ways of working in API backlog, and relationship with SteerCo. 
- The actions resulting from the discussion are issues are as follows:
  - issue [#53](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/53), tagged with Commonalities.
  - issue [#57](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/57), tagged with Commonalities. 
  - issue [#59](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/59), tagged with Commonalities
  - issue [#12](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/12), already defined in API backlog. 

The PPT discussed during today's conf. call is available [here](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Contributions/20220727-CAMARA-API-onboarding-and-handling-process%20.pptx).

There slides discussed in today's conf. call are slides 1-8. The following comments have been captured. 
- Slide 2 -> need to better capture the API families block. 
- Slide 6 -> the tentative (new) workflow works when the API proposal is completely new, and proposes something that has not been discussed so far. However, there are situations where the API proposal (i) is clearly aligned with the scope of an on-going API subproject, or (ii) is in conflict with an API that is already being worked out in an on-going API subproject. These situations will not be uncommon, and shall be handled appropriately, possibly with other ways different from what is currently caputed in the tentative (new) workflow.
- Slides 7 and 8 -> no consensus whether Net Neutrality is in scope of CAMARA or not. Set aside (on hold) for the time being. 

With all the comments captured, Jose will generate a new version to be discussed next week -> **AP 20220728-01**

| Agenda Item | Who | Description |
| ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| **CURRENT ISSUES** |  | **Total: 9 [ Open: 7 (0 new), Closed: 2 ]** |
| Issue #12 - Change for API backlog | Ericsson | **Update 28th July**: N/A  |
| Issue #29 - API to request the status of the network | Scenera | **Update 28th July**: N/A|
| Issue #47<br>\- LS Reply to OPAG on backlog proposal | Ericsson, TEF | **Update 28th July**: N/A|
| Issue #43<br>Roaming Status API Proposal | Vodafone | **Update 28th July**: otential allocation of this Proposal into a new Sub-Project. To be confirmed in the next telco.|
| Issue #44<br>Device Identifier API Proposal | Vodafone | **Update 28th July**: N/A.|
| Issue #45<br>Anonymised Subscriber Identifier API Proposal | Vodafone | **Update 28th July**: N/A|
| Issue #48<br>WiFi control API | TEF | **Update 28th July**: TEF addresses AP 20220707-08. The provided documents are these ones: <ul><li>[README](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20Proposals/WiFicontrol.md)</li></ul><ul><li>[YAML Code](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20Proposals/WiFicontrol.yml)</li><ul>|
| **NEW ISSUES** |  |  |
|  |  |  |

## Action Points

| AP Identifier | AP Owner | Status | Description |
| ------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
| 20220526-01 | Ericsson | Open | on slides 2 and 5 from  [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf), to map bullets to the OPAG backlog topics, to align CAMARA-OPAG work. |
| 20220526-02 | Ericsson | Open | on slide 2 from [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf) from to clarify on the relationship of the first bullet (service ordering with SLA requirements) with the QoD API already posted in CAMARA. |
| 20220526-03 | TEF | Open | to ask OPAG for clarification on the differences between traffic influence and QoS management, and the relationship between traffic influence and the Telco edge APIs. We need to wait until CAMARA-OPAG ToR is signed. |
| 20220707-01 | TEF | Open | Generate a branch directory compliant with CAMARA 'ways of working'.<br>Upload a live '.md' file for the API backlog, and inform WG participants of way forward. |
| 20220707-02 | DTAG | Open | to check OPAG Block A work in roaming, and identify differences/touchpoints between planned work in CAMARA. |
| 20220707-03 | TEF | Open | to assign Marcin as reviewer for issue #43. |
| 20220707-04 | DTAG, TEF | Open | to analyze the 2 use cases proposed by VF for issue #43 socializing them internally, and post feedback/comments in the issue thread.  |
| ~~20220707-05~~ | ~~TEF~~ | ~~Closed~~ | ~~to share a figure explaining the journey from 'API backlog' to a dedicated 'API GW', to manage expectations and understand procedures.~~ |
| ~~20220707-06~~ | ~~TEF~~ | ~~Closed~~ | ~~to assign Miguel as reviewer for issue #44.~~ |
| 20220707-07 | Ericsson, TEF | Open | to analyze the 2 use cases proposed by VF for issue #44, socializing themn internally, and post feedback/comments in the issue thread.  |
| ~~20220707-08~~ | ~~TEF~~ | ~~Closed~~ | ~~to provide a new version of API description for issue #48~~ |
| 20220728-01 | TEF | Open | Generate a new PPT version with the comments captured, for discussion next week.|

## AoB

1. Next call schedule: 4th August 2022
2. Next call agenda:
    * Go through the rest of slides of PPT (Noel has kindly accepted to chair the call).
