# Commonalities meeting

#### *23rd of February 2022*

## Attendees

* Jan Friman (Ericsson)
* Miguel A. García-Martín (Ericsson)
* Thomas Vits (MobileEdgeX)
* Kevin Smith (Vodaphone)
* José Antonio Ordoñez-Lucena (Telefónica)
* Ruben Barrado Gonzalez (Telefónica)
* Shilpa Padgaonkar (DT)

## Agenda

* Recap
* Contributions:
    * Ericsson proposal to use GPSI as UE id
    * Final reviews and feedbacks on the submitted documents
    * Updates on the status of deliverables
* Any other open points

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** |  |
| *NEW address!* | NEW repository structure:<br>\* the steering committee decided to move the working groups and QOD API subproject to separate repositories<br>\* Commonalities are now in <i>**WorkingGroups**</i> repo: [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities)<br>\* new organisation of directories |
|  | Documents are available for review under the Deliverables directory - **new address**:<br>[https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/)<br>Please use [***GitHub issues***](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Acommonalities) as a mean to review or verify the status of each deliverable. |
|  | Every new document's review process will have a dedicated GitHub issue:<br>\* Every *review issue* will be open for a duration of approximately **3-4 weeks**.<br>\* *If* there are no further comments during that period we consider the document as <b>*final*</b> and <b>*accepted*</b> by the working group. |
|  |  |
| **New Contribution** |  |
|  | [E/// proposal to use GPSI as UE identifier #36](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/36) -> WorkGroups' (WG) issue #4<br>\* proposal's presentation has been uploaded to:<br> [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/UE%20identifiers.pptx](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/UE%20identifiers.pptx)<br>\* The proposal is to identify UEs primarily with GPSI (in any existing format) and optionally with UE IP or MAC<br>
| | |
| | To be updated... |
