*Commonalities Meeting Minutes, 21st June 2023*

## Attendees

| Name | Company |
| ---- | ------- |
|Jan Friman |	Ericsson|
|Rajat Kondoi |	Ericsson|
|Tom van Pelt|GSMA |
|Gareth Williams |GSMA|
|Ravi Shekhar| Cisco|
|Rubén Barrado Gonzalez| Telefonica|
|José Ordoñez-Lucena| Telefonica|
|Murat Karabulut |T-Mobile US|
|Tanja De Groot| Nokia|
|Eric Murray |	Vodafone|
|Ludovic Robert|Orange | 
|Randy Levensalor| CableLabs  |
|Fabrizio Moggio | TIM |
|Toshi Wakayama| KDDI |
|Rafal Artych | Deutsche Telekom | 



## Agenda

* **Discussion on API readiness checklist**
* **Review of issues and PRs**
* **AOB**


| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
|API readiness checklist (Issue [#139](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/139))|Fabrizio presented the concern about 6th criterion of API readiness: "Tested by at least 2 operators" and discussed the proposal to change it to "Tested by one operator, recommended by another Operator or Camara partner". Since DT and Telefonica are not willing to change the current criteria the question should be resolved on higher level under new governance model. Randy suggested that APIs can be offered to developers prior reaching version 1.0 as "Beta" release indicating possible braking changes. The discussion also covered other criteria (tests) and concluded that the new issue will be opened by Fabrizio to collect views before escalating question| |
|Issue [#170](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/170) | version number on API Design Guidelines - solution under preparation is to extend Commonalities WG with its own repository, where it will deliver common artifacts (including documents) and have regular releases like other subprojects|
| Issue [#196](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/196) | Require used (SI) units - Device Location applied basic SI units for used parameters. Decisions stay on subproject level.|
| Issue [#212](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/212) | POST or GET to retrieve network information -[PR#244](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/244) submitted |
| Issue [#223](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/223) |Id vs Identifier in the name of a parameter - PR will be prepared after merging [PR#209](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/209)  |
| Issue [#232](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/232)| Linting ruleset according to guidelines - ongoing issue in QoD subproject, open-source example linked in the comments |
| Issue [#240](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/240)| Guideline for datetime format - "ISO 8601 with timezone" seems good solution, possibly as defined in RFC.
|[PR#209](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/209) | to be agreed by Eric and Fabrizio | 



## Issues that can be closed
Issue [#139](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/139)


## PRs that were merged
PR [#238](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/283) 

## PRs that can be merged
 

## AOB

Next meeting is scheduled on 29th of June.
The next one is on 13th of July - possible collision with CAMARA SteerCo call.

