# MOM-2022-08-10

*07th September 2022*
<br>
## Attendees

| \_\_\_ |
| --- |
| Mike Bowring, Spryfoxnetworks |
| Jignesh Sorathia, Spryfoxnetworks |
| Mohajeri Shahram, AT&T |
| Kevin Smith, Vodafone |
| Eric Murray, Vodafone |
| Jan Friman, Ericsson |
| Ruben Barrado Gonzalez, Telefonica |
| Jesús Peña, Telefonica |
| Shilpa Padgaonkar, DT |
| Sylvain Morel, Orange |


## Agenda

* [#60](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/60) User consent management
  * [PR#68](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/68)
* [#32] API design guidelines
  * [PR#72](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/72)
* Timing rules for Commonalities
  * proposal is marking an issue stale after having no activity for one month and closing it. Jose will open a new issue with tag 'Governance'. 
* Other issues







## Discussion
| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** |  |
|  | Repository structure:<br>\* Commonalities are under <i>**WorkingGroups**</i> repo: [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities)<br>\* Please use [***GitHub issues***](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Acommonalities) as a mean to review or verify the status of each deliverable. |
|  | \* Every new document's review process will have a dedicated GitHub issue<br>\* *If* there are no further comments during that period we consider the document as <b>*final*</b> and <b>*accepted*</b> by the working group. |
| **Current issues** |  |
|  | [#31](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/31) Dedicated portal instance for Camara<br>Provide a single, unified portal instance for the entire project, hosting the different APIs developed and with tools allowing for their management.<br>**\* Cost/budget check**<br> **TEF** --> Azure costs 10-12 Euro/month for instance in prod, administration effort/work - ?<br> **Postman**/oth --> SaaS cost only, but to be verified (open source discounts/partnership)<br> *There are other components such as : IDM, CI/CD, Exposure GW which also should be analyzed.*<br>**\* consider other features and their importance (testing?)**<br>**\* please provide your feedback** |
|  | [#53](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/53) API onboarding and handling<br>Telefonica has presented the proposal and comments are being collected  to consoliate feedback from all members |
|  | [#55](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/55) Common Tone of Voice <br>No such official document. If issue author willing to contribute, the issue can be kept open, else can be marked as backlog or closed with stale label. |
|  | [#56](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/56) User not able to call live network through portal |
|  | [#57](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/57) <span class="s1">API proposal pipeline: from API backlog to SteerCo approval</span><br><span class="s1"></span>Telefonica has presented the proposal and comments are being collected  to consoliate feedback from all members |
|  | [#59](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/59) Complete release of API checklist<br>To be verified if [API-Readiness-Checklist](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Working/API-Readiness-Checklist.md) includes needed requirements |
|  | [#60](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/60) User consent management <br><br> - [PR#68](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/68) has been issued on 24th August.Jesús (TEF) has presented the golden nuggets of this PR. <br> - Some comments are already posted in CAMARA. <br> - An updated version will be submitted shortly, addressing reviewers' comments and integrating CIBA flow (OIDC). <br> - DT: Asked for further clarification on novelties brought by the new CIBA flow <br> - Orange: will be coming back with further feedback after internal validation, but they have some questions related to exposing customer data that might require the definition commercial level agreements.<br> - SPN: asked about user consent, and who captures it (operator, 3rd party, etc.). TEF clarified that it within the operator admin domain.|
|  | [#61](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/61) How to contribute test cases for APIs<br>Feedback from members awaited. If not feedback is provided a sample set will be contributed for QoD API. |
| Issues that can be closed |  |
|  | [#33](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/33) TMForum API Mapping<br><ul><li>Orange contribution for Camara API linked to TMF API: [presentation link](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Contributions/May%2018th%20Camara%20meeting%20v2.pptx)</li><li>Agreed in the round that standards like TMF will be used when applicable</li></ul> |
|  | [#26](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/26) Reference NEF<br><ul><li>Nokia has provided a test NEF solution for Camara.</li><li>As soon as documentation is provided for the same, this issue can be closed</li></ul> |
|  | [#62](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/62) How to ensure seurity review<br>If no feedback is received, security review will be restricted to authN-authZ security scheme used in API spec and issue will be closed. |
| **Contributions in review** |  |
| *in progress* | [#32](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/32): General principles doc<br><br> - It has been renamed **API design guidelines** <br> [PR#72](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/72) was issued on 6th September.Rubén (TEF) has presented the golden nuggets of this PR <br> - Some comments are already posted in Github. <br> - VF: asked about common data types, and whether they are fetched from an existing, publicly available reference data model. VF is concerned about proposing new data models, because there might exist de-facto standard data models from Google that can be used instead. <br> - VF: asked about rationale of including X-correlator in the headers rather than in the body. TEF's rationale is to have a better traceability at the backends, and to decouple API functionality from other things (traceability, correlation, ...).<br> - VF: proposes to make X-correlator optional. 
|  | [#4](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/4) P<span class="js-issue-title markdown-title" style="box-sizing: border-box;">roposal to use GPSI as UE identifier</span><br><br>**\* UPDATE (13.07): Based on "Commonalities AuthN/AuthZ" document, new version prepared with [PR51](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/51)**<br>After the review is completed. Content for this will be moved to a new document. |
| **Contributions in development** |  |
|  | [#8](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/8) Testing Principles doc |
|  |  |

## AOB

1. Next commonalities meeting: August 24th 2022
2. Thank you!